feat: update benchmarks and provide configs for reproducing results (#236)
PKU-Alignment/omnisafe: benchmarks/off-policy/README.md

# OmniSafe's Mujoco Velocity Benchmark on Off-Policy Algorithms

OmniSafe's Mujoco Velocity Benchmark evaluated the performance of OmniSafe algorithm implementations in 6 environments from the Safety-Gymnasium task suite. For each algorithm and environment supported, we provide:
- Default hyperparameters used for the benchmark and scripts to reproduce the results.
- A comparison of performance or code-level details with other open-source implementations or classic papers.
- Graphs and raw data that can be used for research purposes.
- Log details obtained during training.
- Some hints on how to fine-tune the algorithm for optimal results.

Supported algorithms are listed below:

- **[ICLR 2016]** [Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1509.02971.pdf)
- **[ICML 2018]** [Twin Delayed DDPG (TD3)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1802.09477.pdf)
- **[ICML 2018]** [Soft Actor-Critic (SAC)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1812.05905.pdf)
- [The Lagrangian version of DDPG](https://cdn.openai.com/safexp-short.pdf)

> - [The Lagrangian version of TD3](https://cdn.openai.com/safexp-short.pdf)

Reviewer: same as above

- [The Lagrangian version of SAC](https://cdn.openai.com/safexp-short.pdf)

## Safety-Gymnasium

We highly recommend using `safety-gymnasium` to run the following experiments. To install, in a linux machine, type:

```bash
pip install safety_gymnasium
```

## Run the Benchmark
You can set the main function of `examples/benchmarks/experimrnt_grid.py` as:

```python
    eg = ExperimentGrid(exp_name='Off-Policy-Velocity')

    # set up the algorithms.
    off_policy = ['DDPG', 'SAC', 'TD3', 'DDPGLag', 'TD3Lag', 'SACLag']
    eg.add('algo', off_policy)

    # you can use wandb to monitor the experiment.
    eg.add('logger_cfgs:use_wandb', [False])
    # you can use tensorboard to monitor the experiment.
    eg.add('logger_cfgs:use_tensorboard', [True])

>     # Set the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # set the device.
```

# OmniSafe's Mujoco Velocity Benchmark for Off-Policy Algorithms

The OmniSafe Mujoco Velocity Benchmark for off-policy algorithms evaluates the effectiveness of OmniSafe's off-policy algorithms across multiple environments from the [Safety-Gymnasium](https://github.com/PKU-Alignment/safety-gymnasium) Mujoco Velocity task suite. For each algorithm and environment supported, we provide:

- Default hyperparameters used for the benchmark and scripts to reproduce the results.

> - A comparison of performance or code-level details with other open-source implementations.

Reviewer: why do you del this line in model-based benchmark but add in here?

Author: Because model-based algorithms did not make comparison with other open-source implementations, but on-policy and off-policy did.

- **[Preprint 2019][<sup>1</sup>](#1)** [The Lagrangian version of TD3](https://cdn.openai.com/safexp-short.pdf)
- **[Preprint 2019][<sup>1</sup>](#1)** [The Lagrangian version of SAC](https://cdn.openai.com/safexp-short.pdf)

## Safety-Gymnasium

We highly recommend using `safety-gymnasium` to run the following experiments. To install, in a linux machine, type:

```bash
pip install safety_gymnasium
```

## Run the Benchmark
You can set the main function of `examples/benchmarks/experimrnt_grid.py` as:

```python
    eg = ExperimentGrid(exp_name='Off-Policy-Velocity')

    # set up the algorithms.
    off_policy = ['DDPG', 'SAC', 'TD3', 'DDPGLag', 'TD3Lag', 'SACLag']
    eg.add('algo', off_policy)

    # you can use wandb to monitor the experiment.
    eg.add('logger_cfgs:use_wandb', [False])
    # you can use tensorboard to monitor the experiment.
    eg.add('logger_cfgs:use_tensorboard', [True])

    # set the device.
    avaliable_gpus = list(range(torch.cuda.device_count()))
    gpu_id = [0, 1, 2, 3]
    # if you want to use CPU, please set gpu_id = None
    # gpu_id = None

>     if not set(gpu_id).issubset(avaliable_gpus):

Reviewer: when I uncommented `gpu_id = None` this will cause an exception.
```suggestion
    if gpu_id and not set(gpu_id).issubset(avaliable_gpus):
```

cd examples
python evaluate_saved_policy.py
```
Please note that before you evaluate, please set the `LOG_DIR` in `evaluate_saved_policy.py`.

For example, if I train `DDPG` in `SafetyHumanoidVelocity-v1`

```python
LOG_DIR = '~/omnisafe/examples/runs/DDPG-<SSafetyHumanoidVelocity-v1>/seed-000'
play = True
save_replay = True
if __name__ == '__main__':
    evaluator = omnisafe.Evaluator(play=play, save_replay=save_replay)
    for item in os.scandir(os.path.join(LOG_DIR, 'torch_save')):
        if item.is_file() and item.name.split('.')[-1] == 'pt':
            evaluator.load_saved(
                save_dir=LOG_DIR, model_name=item.name, camera_name='track', width=256, height=256
            )
            evaluator.render(num_episodes=1)
            evaluator.evaluate(num_episodes=1)
```

## OmniSafe Benchmark

### Classic Reinforcement Learning Algorithms

> In an effort to ascertain the credibility of OmniSafe ’s algorithmic implementation, a comparative assessment was conducted, juxtaposing the performance of classical reinforcement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an effort to ascertain the credibility of OmniSafe’s algorithmic implementation, a comparative assessment was conducted, juxtaposing the performance of classical reinforcement
```

</table>

## Experiment Analysis

### Hyperparameters

**We are continuously improving the performance of off-policy algorithms and finding better hyperparameters. So we are happy to receive any advice from users, feel free for opening PRs or issues.**

Off-Policy algorithms almost share the same hyperparameters, the share hyperparameters are listed below:

|   Hyperparameter    |   Value    |
| :-----------------: | :--------: |
|   `batch_size`    |    256     |
|      `gamma`      |    0.99    |
|      `size`       |  1000000   |
|  `update_iters`   |     1      |
|  `update_cycle`   |     1      |
|  `hidden_sizes`   | [256, 256] |

However, there are some differences between the three algorithms. We list the differences below:

#### TD3

|      Hyperparameter      | Value |
| :----------------------: | :---: |
|     `policy_noise`     |  0.2  |
|      `noise_clip`      |  0.5  |
| `start_learning_steps` | 25000 |

#### SAC

|      Hyperparameter      | Value |
| :----------------------: | :---: |
|        `alpha`         |  0.2  |
| `start_learning_steps` | 5000  |

> ### Lagragian

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Lagragian
```

The lagrangian versions of off-policy algorithms share the same set of
lagrangian hyperparameters. The hyperparameters are listed below:

|      Hyperparameter      | Value |
| :----------------------: | :---: |
| `cost_limit` | 25.0  |
| `lagrangian_multiplier_init` | 0.001  |
| `lambda_lr` | 0.00001  |
| `lambda_optimizer` | Adam |

### Some Hints

In our experiments, we found that some hyperparameters are important for the performance of the algorithm:

- `obs_normalize`: Whether to normalize the observation.
- `reward_normalize`: Whether to normalize the reward.
- `cost_normalize`: Whether to normalize the cost.

> We have done some experiments to show the effect of these hyperparameters, and we log the best configuration for each algorithm in each environment. You can check it in the `omnisafe/configs/off_policy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have done some experiments to show the effect of these hyperparameters, and we log the best configurations for each algorithm over all environments. You can check it in the `omnisafe/configs/off_policy`.
```

Generally, we recommend:

|      Hyperparameter      | Value |
| :----------------------: | :---: |
| `obs_normalize`   |  `False`  |
| `reward_normalize`|  `False`  |
| `cost_normalize`  | `True` |

> Besides, the hyperparameter `torch_num_threads` in `train_cfgs` is also important. In a single training session, a larger value for `torch_num_threads` often means faster training speed. However, we found in experiments that setting `torch_num_threads` too high can cause resource contention between parallel training sessions, resulting in slower overall experiment speed. In the configs file, we set the default value for `torch_num_threads` to 16, which ensures faster training speed for a single session. If you need to launch multiple training sessions in parallel, please consider your device configuration. For example, if your computing resources have a total of 32 physical cores and you are launching 16 training scripts in parallel, do not set `torch_num_threads` to a value greater than 4.

Reviewer: How to understand the example at last?

Author: A computer with 32 physical cores has 64 thread cores. This example aims to illustrate that `the number of experiments` * `torch_num_threads` should not exceed the number of thread cores.

Reviewer: `A computer with 32 physical cores has 64 thread cores` It is machine-specific, not always the case.

Reviewer: I update a better version below; you can check it out.

> Besides, the hyperparameter `torch_num_threads` in `train_cfgs` is also important. In a single training session, a larger value for `torch_num_threads` often means faster training speed. However, we found in experiments that setting `torch_num_threads` too high can cause resource contention between parallel training sessions, resulting in slower overall experiment speed. In the configs file, we set the default value for `torch_num_threads` to 16, which ensures faster training speed for a single session. If you need to launch multiple training sessions in parallel, please consider your device configuration. For example, if your computing resources have a total of 32 physical cores and you are launching 16 training scripts in parallel, do not set `torch_num_threads` to a value greater than 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides, the hyperparameter `torch_num_threads` in `train_cfgs` is also important. In a single training session, a larger value for `torch_num_threads` often means faster training speed. However, we found in experiments that setting `torch_num_threads` too high can cause resource contention between parallel training sessions, resulting in slower overall experiment speed. In the configs file, we set the default value for `torch_num_threads` to 16, which ensures faster training speed for a single session. If you need to launch multiple training sessions in parallel, please consider your device configuration. For example, suppose your CPU has two physical threads per core and has a total of 32 cores, if you are launching 16 training scripts in parallel, you had better not set `torch_num_threads` to a value greater than 4.
```

If you find that other hyperparameters perform better, please feel free to open an issue or pull request.

> <div id="1"></div>

Reviewer: didn't work for jumping， maybe try
```suggestion
<a id="1"></a>
```
or 
```suggestion
<a href="#1"></a>
```

> [1] This paper is [safety-gym](https://openai.com/research/safety-gym) original paper. Its public code base [safety-starter-agents](https://github.com/openai/safety-starter-agents) implemented `SACLag` but does not report it in the paper.  We can not find the source of `DDPGLag` and `TD3Lag`. However, this paper introduced lagrangian methods and it implemented `SACLag`, so We also use it as a source of `DDPGLag` and `TD3Lag`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1] This paper is [safety-gym](https://openai.com/research/safety-gym) original paper. Its public code base [safety-starter-agents](https://github.com/openai/safety-starter-agents) implemented `SACLag` but does not report it in the paper.  We can not find the source of `DDPGLag` and `TD3Lag`. However, this paper introduced lagrangian methods and it implemented `SACLag`, so we also use it as a source of `DDPGLag` and `TD3Lag`.
```

                evaluator.evaluate(num_episodes=1)
```

## OmniSafe Benchmark

### Classic Reinforcement Learning Algorithms

> In an effort to ascertain the credibility of OmniSafe ’s algorithmic implementation, a com-parative assessment was conducted, juxtaposing the performance of classical reinforcement
> learning algorithms, such as DDPG, TD3 and SAC. The performance table is provided in <a href="#compare_off_policy">Table 1</a>, with
> well-established open-source implementations, specifically [Tianshou](https://github.com/thu-ml/tianshou) and
> [Stable-Baselines3](https://github.com/DLR-RM/stable-baselines3).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an effort to ascertain the credibility of OmniSafe ’s algorithmic implementation, a com-parative assessment was conducted, juxtaposing the performance of classical reinforcement learning algorithms, such as DDPG, TD3 and SAC. The performance table is provided in <a href="#compare_off_policy">Table 1</a>, with
well-established open-source implementations, specifically [Tianshou](https://github.com/thu-ml/tianshou) and
[Stable-Baselines3](https://github.com/DLR-RM/stable-baselines3).
```

class="math inline">±</span> 1374.72</td>
<td style="text-align: center;"><strong>4267.05 <span
class="math inline">±</span> 678.65</strong></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">4087.94 <span
class="math inline">±</span> 755.10</td>
<td style="text-align: center;">4419.29 <span
class="math inline">±</span> 232.06</td>
<td style="text-align: center;"><strong>4619.34 <span
class="math inline">±</span> 274.43</strong></td>
<td style="text-align: center;">3906.78 <span
class="math inline">±</span> 795.48</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
  <caption><p style="font-family: 'Times New Roman', Times, serif;"><b>Table 1:</b> The performance of OmniSafe off-policy algorithms, which was evaluated about published baselines within the Safety-Gymnasium MuJoCo Velocity environments. Experimental outcomes, comprising mean and standard deviation, were derived from 10 assessment iterations encompassing multiple random seeds. A noteworthy distinction lies in the fact that Stable-Baselines3 employs distinct parameters tailored to each environment, while OmniSafe maintains a consistent parameter set across all environments.</p></caption>
</table>

### Safe Reinforcement Learning Algorithms

> Serving as a reliable SafeRL baseline, OmniSafe offers performance insights for SafeRL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serving as a reliable SafeRL `baseline`, OmniSafe offers performance insights for SafeRL
```
same as above

> algorithms within the Safety-Gymnasium environment. The results of OmniSafe are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
algorithms within the Safety-Gymnasium environments. The results of OmniSafe are
```

      <br>
      <div style="color:orange; border-bottom: 1px solid #d9d9d9; display: inline-block; color: #999; padding: 2px;">
        SafetySwimmerVelocity-v1
      </div>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td style="text-align:center">
      <img style="border-radius: 0.3125em; box-shadow: 0 2px 4px 0 rgba(34,36,38,.12),0 2px 10px 0 rgba(34,36,38,.08);" src="https://github.com/Gaiejj/omnisafe_benchmarks_cruve/blob/main/off-policy/benchmarks/offpolicy_walker2d_1e6.png">
      <br>
      <div style="color:orange; border-bottom: 1px solid #d9d9d9; display: inline-block; color: #999; padding: 2px;">
        SafetyWalker2dVelocity-v1
      </div>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <caption><p style="font-family: 'Times New Roman', Times, serif;"><b>Figure 1:</b> Training curves in Safety-Gymnasium MuJoCo Velocity environments, covering classical reinforcement learning algorithms mentioned in <a href="#compare_off_policy">Table 1</a> and safe reinforcement learning algorithms.</p></caption>
</table>

## Experiment Analysis

### Hyperparameters

> **We are continuously improving performance for first-order algorithms and finding better hyperparameters and will release an ultimate version as soon as possible. Meanwhile, we are happy to receive any advice from users, feel free for opening PRs or issues.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We are continuously improving performance for algorithms and finding better hyperparameters. So we are happy to receive any advice from users, feel free for opening PRs or issues.**
```

Off-Policy algorithms almost share the same hyperparameters, the share hyperparameters are listed below:

|   Hyperparameter    |   Value    |
| :-----------------: | :--------: |
|   `batch_size`    |    256     |
|      `gamma`      |    0.99    |
|      `size`       |  1000000   |
|  `update_iters`   |     1      |

> |  `update_circle`   |     1      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `update_cycle`   |     1      |
```

### TD3

|      Hyperparameter      | Value |
| :----------------------: | :---: |
|     `policy_noise`     |  0.2  |
|      `noise_clip`      |  0.5  |
| `start_learning_steps` | 25000 |

### SAC

|      Hyperparameter      | Value |
| :----------------------: | :---: |
|        `alpha`         |  0.2  |
| `start_learning_steps` | 5000  |

### Lagragian

The lagrangian versions of off-policy algorithms share the same set of
lagrangian hyperparameters. The hyperparameters are listed below:

|      Hyperparameter      | Value |
| :----------------------: | :---: |
| `cost_limit` | 25.0  |
| `lagrangian_multiplier_init` | 0.001  |
| `lambda_lr` | 0.00001  |
| `lambda_optimizer` | Adam |

### Some Hints

In our experiments, we found that some hyperparameters are important for the performance of the algorithm:

- `obs_normlize`: Whether to normalize the observation.
- `rew_normlize`: Whether to normalize the reward.
- `cost_normlize`: Whether to normalize the cost.

We have done some experiments to show the effect of these hyperparameters, and we log the best configuration for each algorithm in each environment. You can check it in the `omnisafe/configs/off_policy`.

> Generally, we recommend not normalizing the observation and reward, but not the cost.

Reviewer: I think there is something wrong in this sentence.

Besides, the hyperparameter `train_cfgs:torch_num_threads` is also important. Off-policy algorithms always use more time to update policy than to sample data. So we use `torch_num_threads` to speed up the update process.

> This hyperparamter depens on the number of CPU cores. We set it to 8 in our experiments. You can set it to some other porper value according to your CPU cores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This hyperparamter depens on the number of CPU cores. We set it to 8 in our experiments. You can set it to some other proper value according to your CPU cores.
```
